scarab help docs

Overview

Scarab's high degree of configurability allows for tracking artifacts within any project, technical or non-technical. Form field types, names, and options are arbitrary, allowing users to use their own nomenclature, and to sequence attributes in an order that best suits their needs.

Scarab is a generic artifact tracker that allows a user to:

a. design their own parameters for entering, searching for, assigning and sharing responsibility for issues

b. track the state of, and edit multiple bugs simultaneously

c. copy or move artifacts from on project to another:
a scarab project is defined by artifacts sharing a common set of parameters, and a unique set of users; although project and user administration lives outside of the SourceCast integrated version of Scarab

---------------------------------------

Scarab basics:

1. checkboxes are often used as a means of selecting list items:
there are many instances where checkboxes are used as a means of selecting an modifying an item (i.e. to delete an attribute from "customize create 'enter issue'" user clicks the checkbox in the far left column of that attributes row, and then clicks "delete selected attribute(s))
(see diag)

2. pull-down menus are often used as a means of displaying/changing the sequence of list items. Users can alter this sequence by:
1.selecting the desired sequence number from an item's sequence pull-down menu
(see diag) 

3. clicking the "resort button" associated with the list being resorted (there may be several "resort button"s in close proximity to each other in when there are parent/child relationships between several lists (child lists appear as tables embedded in their parent table)
(see diag)


---------------------------------------


customizing the enter issue form

modifying and existing enter issue form:
1. user selects "Customize / Create 'Enter Issue'"

This page consists of a multiple tables ("attribute groups") listing the form elements (attributes) that appear in the enter issue form. There is a one-to-one correspondence between the naming/sequence of attribute groups (and the attributes within them) on the  "Customize / Create 'Enter Issue'" screen, and the "enter issue" screen.

Functionality on this page allows users to:

organize and label attributes into logical groups

Group level functions:
show or hide a group and all attributes appearing in it 
sort these groups and the attributes within them
select which attribute groups are checked against the database for duplicates

Attribute level functions:
edit or delete attributes
view attribute detail
rename an attribute within the project (this is desirable if a user is utilizing attributes from the "global attributes list") 
activate or deactivate an attribute (show / hide in form)
assign the attribute as a required field


To create an attribute group: 
1. click "add group" (submit @ bottom of page) this will create a new empty attribute group at the bottom of the page (default) or immediately beneath the last selected attribute group
2. enter a name for the new attribute group (save required)

To delete an attribute group:
1. select an attribute group by clicking the checkbox to the left of the attribute group's name
2. click "delete group" (submit @ bottom of page)

To add pre-defined attributes to an attribute group:
1. click the "add attribute" button appearing immediately below the specific attribute group you want to add it to; this will take you to the "global attributes" list
2. select a pre-defined attribute(s) from "global attributes" list and click "add selected entry to page"
3. your selected attribute(s) will appear at the bottom of the selected attribute group (default) or immediately beneath the last selected attribute in that group 

To edit an attribute:
1. two points of entry into this process-
a.select attribute from customize / create "enter issue" form ("name" appears as a link to a given attributes corresponding edit attribute screen)
b.select an attribute from "global attributes" list ("name" appears as a link to a given attributes corresponding edit attribute screen)

2. "input type"-determines the what type of form element (text box, text area, select menu, pull-down menu, etc.) that the attribute will be. altering this setting will change the attribute in different ways depending on its initial conditions:
a. changing an attribute from a pull-down menu with list options to a text box/text area- list options hidden but not deleted
b. changing an attribute from a pull-down menu with list options to a select list- list options map to options in select list
c. changing an attribute from a pull-down menu with list options to a radio button set- list options map to radio button choices

3. attribute name appears as the title of the form element on the "enter issue" form
4. entering an attribute description will make the attribute name an anchor link to a corresponding entry on Scarab's nomenclature glossary. It will also appear as "alt" text for this link on browsers that support this feature
5. list options (i.e. pull-downs, select list, radio buttons) can be created, edited, sorted, deleted, using the submit buttons at the bottom of the "attribute options" table.
a. "add option" adds an option to the bottom of the list or immediately beneath the last selected option in the list
b. selecting an option and clicking "add child option" adds a child option beneath the selected option - child options allow users to select the entire category (parent) or exclusive entries into that category (child):
example:
	windows
		95
		98
		2000
	macintosh
		8.6.1
		9.1
		X
If multiple options are selected when "add child option" is clicked, a child option is added to each of the selected options
c. selecting an option(s) and clicking "delete selected options" removes that option from the attribute
6. "copy this attribute" creates an identical copy (named "attribute x 2") of the exisisting attribute that can be starting point for a new attribute. The original attribute remains unchanged.