$Id: ATTRIBUTE_NOTES.txt,v 1.1 2001/08/31 06:59:16 jon Exp $

TODO: 
    Define Attribute Security:
        Which Attributes can be shown/edited by which Permission.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scarab has a concept called Attributes. An Attribute is defined as a
value that describes an Issue. For instance, an Issue may have the
following Attributes:

    "OS, Priority, Severity, Status"

Each of these Attributes can have one or more Attribute Options. For
example, the Status Attribute has the following default options:

    "Open, Closed, Fixed, Resolved, Invalid"
    
All Attributes belong to an Attribute Type which in turn belongs to an
Attribute Class. Taking the Status Attribute as an example again, it has
a type of "combo-box" and belongs in the class "select-one".

This grouping allows the user interface to be built according to the
type and class of Attribute that is defined. For example, the Status
Attribute would be rendered in the UI as a pull down menu with the
ability to select one of the options.

To reiterate, the relationship chain looks like this:

   select-one -> 
                 combo-box -> 
                              Status ->
                                        Open
                                        Closed
                                        Fixed
                                        Resolved
                                        Invalid

Another feature that the Attribute system has is the ability to
infinitely nest Attribute Options. For example, we define the OS
Attribute as having the following Options:

    OS ->
          Windows
          Windows 2000
          Windows 98
          Windows 95

We consider the "Windows" option to be a generic value for all of the OS
Options. This allows us to implement features such as the ability to
search for all Issues within the Windows Option list. If we show the
effect of nesting, it looks like this:

    OS ->
          Windows
              Windows 2000
              Windows 98
              Windows 95

It is important to note that there is also the ability to order the
display of the Attribute Options. For example, if one wanted to display
a specific order for the Options, then they would define things like
this:

    OS ->
          Windows           1
              Windows 95    1
              Windows 98    2
              Windows 2000  3

          MacOS             2
              MacOS 9       1
              MacOS X       2

The UI for entering an Issue does not show the Parent Option because we
figure that a specific operating system choice is important with regards
to entering the Issue. If the Issue is present across multiple OS's,
then multiple Issues can be entered and then a dependency chain between
those Issues can be established. It is our feeling that Issue entry
should attempt to as specifically as possible report the event.

Options also have a relationship associated with them. In other words,
it is possible to define that an Option has a parent/child relationship
with another option or that one Option is required to be listed
before/after another Option.

Attributes are associated to Modules in the SCARAB_R_MODULE_ATTRIBUTE
table. This allows each Module to have a defined set of Attributes and
Options. Options are also associated to a Module through the
SCARAB_R_MODULE_OPTION table. Both of these tables also record a
"Display Value" column which allows an individual module to customize a
different value for display than for the actual value of the Attribute
or Option. The Preferred order, whether or not the Attribute/Option is
"Active" (meaning it is being used in the Module) can also be overriden.
The Required field for an Attribute marks whether or not this Module
requires the Attribute to be entered with a value or if it can be left
null.

Attributes are marked where they show up on the IssueEntry set of
Wizards. The benefit of this is that some of the Attributes can show up
on Wizard1 and other Attributes can show up on Wizard3. This determines
which Attributes are marked as important for the deduplicate feature of
filling in an Issue.

Which Attributes show up on the Quick Search page can also be customized
through the SCARAB_R_MODULE_ATTRIBUTE table.

Examples of Attributes can be found in the
src/sql/mysql-scarab-default-data.sql file.
